CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to QuickClinic

Thanks for showing interest in contributing! 🚀

## How to Contribute

### Getting Started

1. **Fork the repo**
2. **Clone your fork**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/quickclinic.git
   cd quickclinic
   ```
3. **Create a new branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/my-feature
   ```
4. **Make your changes**
5. **Format your code** (IMPORTANT!)
   ```bash
   npx prettier --write .
   npx prettier --check .
   ```
6. **Commit and push**
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Added my feature"
   git push origin feature/my-feature
   ```
7. **Open a Pull Request** 🚀

## Pull Request Guidelines

### Creating Issues and PRs

- **Anyone can create issues** and raise PRs without needing to be assigned first
- You don't need to wait for issue assignment to start working on something
- **Keep PRs as small as possible** for easier review
- If your changes are large, consider creating **sub-issues** and breaking them into multiple smaller PRs

### Code Quality

Before submitting your PR:

1. **Run Prettier** to ensure code formatting consistency:

   ```bash
   npx prettier --write .
   npx prettier --check .
   ```

2. **Wait for CodeRabbit review** after opening your PR
   - CodeRabbit is an automated code reviewer that will analyze your changes
   - **Address any feedback** that CodeRabbit provides
   - If you disagree with a suggestion, **reply with a comment** explaining why your approach makes sense

3. **Respond to all review comments** - either fix the issues or provide a thoughtful explanation

## Tech Stack

### Frontend

- Vite + React
- Tailwind CSS

### Backend

- Express
- MongoDB
- JWT Authentication

## Need Help?

If you find a bug or have a feature idea, feel free to **open an Issue**!

Thank you so much for contributing! 💙

Commit message:

Update PR guidelines for issue assignment clarity
Clarified that users should comment when working on an issue to avoid duplication.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to QuickClinic

Thanks for showing interest in contributing! 🚀

## How to Contribute

### Getting Started

1. **Fork the repo**
2. **Clone your fork**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/quickclinic.git
   cd quickclinic
   ```
3. **Create a new branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/my-feature
   ```
4. **Make your changes**
5. **Format your code** (IMPORTANT!)
   ```bash
   npx prettier --write .
   npx prettier --check .
   ```
6. **Commit and push**
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Added my feature"
   git push origin feature/my-feature
   ```
7. **Open a Pull Request** 🚀

## Pull Request Guidelines

### Creating Issues and PRs

- **Anyone can create issues** and raise PRs without needing to be assigned first Just leave a short comment mentioning that you're working on it to ensure multiple people don't work on the same Issue
- You don't need to wait for issue assignment to start working on something
- **Keep PRs as small as possible** for easier review
- If your changes are large, consider creating **sub-issues** and breaking them into multiple smaller PRs

### Code Quality

Before submitting your PR:

1. **Run Prettier** to ensure code formatting consistency:

   ```bash
   npx prettier --write .
   npx prettier --check .
   ```

2. **Wait for CodeRabbit review** after opening your PR
   - CodeRabbit is an automated code reviewer that will analyze your changes
   - **Address any feedback** that CodeRabbit provides
   - If you disagree with a suggestion, **reply with a comment** explaining why your approach makes sense

3. **Respond to all review comments** - either fix the issues or provide a thoughtful explanation

## Tech Stack

### Frontend

- Vite + React
- Tailwind CSS

### Backend

- Express
- MongoDB
- JWT Authentication

## Need Help?

If you find a bug or have a feature idea, feel free to **open an Issue**!

Thank you so much for contributing! 💙
